django-vs-flask (#152)
rootstrap/blog: content/django-vs-flask.md

> # Django vs Flask: which one should you choose for your project?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Django vs Flask: Which one should you choose for your project?
```

> # Django vs Flask: Which one should you choose for your project?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Django vs Flask: Which should You Choose For Your Project?
```

> [Django](https://www.djangoproject.com/) and [Flask](https://flask.palletsprojects.com/en/1.1.x/) are among the most popular Python web frameworks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Django](https://www.djangoproject.com/) and [Flask](https://flask.palletsprojects.com/en/1.1.x/) are two of the most popular Python web frameworks.
```

In this article, we're going to review their main strengths and weaknesses to help you decide which one is a better fit for your project.

# Django
[![django-logo](images/flask-vs-django-django-logo.png)](https://www.djangoproject.com/)
## Approach
Django opts for an all batteries-included approach.

> From a powerful ORM to an authentication system or a templating engine, Django takes care of it all without the need to learn any extra libraries.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
From a powerful ORM to an authentication system or templating engine, Django takes care of it all without the need to learn any extra libraries.
```

It also has the concept of pluggable apps, which means you can drop an app folder inside your project and get its functionality right away with very little configuration. 

> ## Main features

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Main Features
```

- Django has a very powerful ORM that exposes a lot of SQL to the python programming language.
- It has Authentication and Authorization built-in, without the need for any extra configuration.
- It also boasts a built-in admin site, and

> - a built-in mailing system.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 a built-in mailing system.
```

## Pitfalls
- Being tightly coupled with its toolset, Django can be difficult to use in combination with other tools, like replacing the form library, for example.
- The default scaffolding, while not bad for small projects, does not scale without modification when trying to manage things such as multiple environments.
- This functionality implements the Model View Template pattern but requires some effort to implement other architecture types with it.

## Developer Experience

> One of the perks of using an all batteries included approach is that the developer experience will be more or less the same across the framework.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One of the main perks of using an all batteries included approach, is that the developer experience will be more or less the same across the framework.
```

> This proves very friendly to people new to the framework, that can follow a pattern and be guided to follow good practices by looking at existing code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This proves very beneficial to people new to the framework, as they can follow a pattern and a guide to follow good practices by looking at existing code.
```

> This proves very beneficial to people new to the framework, as they can follow a pattern and a guide to follow good practices by looking at existing code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This can be very beneficial for users new to the framework as they can follow a pattern, and guide, for best practices by looking at existing code.
```

> The other gain you get from this is that core parts of every site would be tried and tested.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Another benefit you get from this is that the core parts of every site are tried and tested.
```

> Another benefit you get from this is that the core parts of every site are tried and tested.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Another benefit you get from this approach is that the core parts of every site are tried and tested.
```

> This is a very desirable feature for some parts like authentication and authorization, or an admin panel for providing easy back office access to your team.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is a very desirable feature for parts like authentication and authorization, or an admin panel used to provide easy back office access to your team.
```

> ## Team size and structure

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Team Size and Structure
```

> Django is at its best for a small to medium team that plans to handle a middle to large sized code base

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Django is best served for small to medium teams that need to handle a middle to a large-sized code base
```

> The project structure takes that into account and file conflicts will be minimal.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The project structure takes that into account and as a result file conflicts will be minimal.
```

> The project structure takes that into account and file conflicts will be minimal.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The project structure takes that into account and as a result file conflicts will be minimal.
```

> Since it has some sort of scaffolded default structure for it's projects is very easy to ramp up newbie developers into it with a senior supervising the team.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since it has some sort of scaffolded default structure for its projects, it's very easy to ramp up newbie developers into using it, with a senior developer supervising the team.
```

# Flask
[![flask logo](images/django-vs-flask-flask-logo.png)](https://flask.palletsprojects.com/en/1.1.x/)
## Approach

> Born as a combination of a http server with a template engine zipped together, Flask opts for a very minimalistic approach.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Originally developed as a combination of an HTTP server and a template engine zipped together, Flask opts for a very minimalistic approach.
```

It provides some minimal structure, but leaves the decisions up to you.

> This makes flask very easy to extend with practically whatever you want.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This makes Flask very easy to extend with practically anything you want.
```

> ## Main features

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Main Features
```

- Very lightweight.

> - It requires little to no configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-  Requires little to no configuration.
```

- Not opinionated, you have total freedom to decide the project structure from a single file to an elaborate folder system.
- When you need some structure, you have blueprints to structure your app.
- Easy to integrate with other python libraries.

## Pitfalls
- Since it's very lightweight, while the framework itself doesn't need any special configuration, the used libraries often do require config.
- You have to mix and match libraries to get the desired functionality. This also means that different parts of your project have different support from the community.

> - The lack of opinion can lead to complicated architectures, or to very big single file projects.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The lack of opinions can lead to complicated architectures or very big single file projects.
```

> ## Developer experience

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Developer Experience
```

Flask is what you want it to be.

> But it makes you work for it, you can start importing any libraries you like and code your app your own way.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
But, it makes you work for it, and you can start importing any libraries you like and code your app in your own way.
```

This can be really cool, and makes a lot of sense if you want to quickly spin up a quick api for puting your python code on the web.

> On the other side, the lack of guidance can be a bit overwhelming for a new user, that can be a bit lost if it does not know exactly how the framework works

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On the other hand, the lack of guidance can be a bit overwhelming for new users and can leave them feeling a bit lost if they don't know exactly how the framework operates. 
```

> Also, if you want some standard features, like Authorization and Authentication or an admin panel, you will have to search for thrid party libraries or roll your own implementations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Also, if you want some standard features - like Authorization and Authentication, or an admin panel, you will have to search for third-party libraries or roll your own implementations.
```

> This can be a bit repetitive since almost every application has these kind of features implemented to a certain extent

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This can be a bit repetitive as almost every application has these kinds of features implemented to a certain extent. 
```

> # Team size and structure

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Team Size and Structure
```

> # Team size and structure

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Team Size and Structure
```

> This can be a bit repetitive since almost every application has these kind of features implemented to a certain extent

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This can be a bit repetitive since most applications have these kinds of features implemented to a certain degree.
```

> The liberties that flask gives you require a lot of experience to take advantage of.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The liberties that Flask gives you requires a lot of experience to take advantage of them.
```

> The initial simplicity of a sigle file app can lead very easily to a very big single file app.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The initial simplicity of a single file app can easily lead to a very big single file app.
```

> This is not bad if you just want to prototype something, but when you sart to split the app into files you will have the entire responsibility of those architecture decisions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is not bad if you just want to prototype something, but when you start to split the app into files, you will have the entire responsibility of those architecture decisions.
```

> Flask is better suited for very small code bases that do one thing and do it well, maintained by small teams.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Flask is better suited for very small codebases that do one thing well and  aremaintained by small teams.
```

> Flask is better suited to very small codebases that have a single function and maintained by small teams.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Flask is better suited to very small codebases that have a single function and are maintained by small teams.
```

> If you plan to spin up a lot of microservices for example, this can be a good fit.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you plan to spin up a lot of microservices, for example, then this can be a good fit.
```

> # Wrapping up

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Wrapping Up
```

> # Wrapping up

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# What To Take Away
```

> ## Django is a good idea for…

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Django is best used for: 
```

> # Wrapping Up

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# What To Take Away
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{PLACEHOLDER TO LEAD INTO THE FOLLOWING}
```

- Quickly validating business ideas.
- Ecommerce sites with standard features.

> - Information systems in general where reporting is important.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Information systems in which reporting is important.
```

- Medium or Large code bases with small or medium teams maintaining them.

> ## Flask is a good idea for…

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Flask is best suited to:
```

- Lightweight applications.
- Microservices.
- Non MVT or MVC projects.

> - Small code bases and small teams maintaining them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Small code bases with small teams maintaining them.
```

> # So... Which one should you choose?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# So, which one should you choose?
```

> To properly answer this question, you need to take into consideration all the project requirements and make a decision based on that.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To properly answer this question, you need to take all your project requirements into consideration and make a decision based on them. 
```

> To properly answer this question, you will need to take all of your project requirements into consideration and make a decision based on them. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To properly answer this question, you will need to take all of your project requirements into consideration and make a decision based around them. 
```

> If development speed is the most important thing because you need to go to the market fast, then Django probably will be the better choice,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If development speed and getting to the market fast is your priority, then Django would probably be the better choice for you. 
```

> since you get a more complete feature set out of the box.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
as you get a more complete feature set right out of the box.
```

> If you need a more custom solution, or your project features are out of the ordinary Flask might be the better choice.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you need a more custom solution or your project features are out of the ordinary, then Flask might be the better choice.
```

> If you need a more custom solution or your project features are out of the ordinary, then Flask might be the better choice to help achieve this.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you need a more custom solution or your project features are a little out of the ordinary, then Flask might be the better choice to help achieve this.
```

> At the end of the day, you should choose the framework that adjusts more into your project idea and particular situation,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At the end of the day, you should choose the framework that adjusts more to your project idea and particular situation,
```

> taking into consideration their strengths and weaknesess, not only code wise but also if the coding style that their propose it's adecuate to your organization.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
taking into consideration their strengths and weaknesses, not only code-wise but also if the coding style is best suited to your organization.
```

Do you have any experience that you want to share with any of these frameworks?

> Are there any extra pros or cons that you feel are missing?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Are there any extra pros or cons that you feel we didn't discuss here?
```

> If you do, I invite you to discuss them in the comment section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If so, I invite you to discuss them in the comment section.
```

> Thanks for reading.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
I hope this pot was beneficial to you and thanks for reading.
```

# Django vs Flask: which one should you choose for your project?
[Django](https://www.djangoproject.com/) and [Flask](https://flask.palletsprojects.com/en/1.1.x/) are among the most popular Python web frameworks.

> In this article, we're going to review their main strengths and weaknesses to help you decide which one is the better fit for your project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this article, we're going to review their main strengths and weaknesses to help you decide which one is a better fit for your project.
```

# Django
[![django-logo](images/flask-vs-django-django-logo.png)](https://www.djangoproject.com/)
## Approach
Django opts for an all batteries-included approach.
From a powerful ORM to an authentication system or a templating engine, Django takes care of it all without the need to learn any extra libraries.

> It also has the concept of pluggable apps, which means that you can drop an app folder inside your project and get its functionality right away

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It also has the concept of pluggable apps, which means you can drop an app folder inside your project and get its functionality right away.
```

> with very little configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

## Main features
- Django has a very powerful ORM that exposes a lot of SQL to the python programming language.

> - Authentication and Authorization built-in, without any extra configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- It has Authentication and Authorization built-in, without the need for any extra configuration.
```

> - A built-in admin site.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- It also boasts a built-in admin site, and
```

> - A built-in mailing system.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- a built-in mailing system.
```

## Pitfalls

> - Tightly coupled with its toolset, Django is sort of difficult to use in combination with other tools (replacing the form library, for example).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Being tightly coupled with its toolset, Django can be difficult to use in combination with other tools, like replacing the form library, for example.
```

> - The default scaffolding, while not bad for small projects, does not scale without modification when trying to manage things such as multiple environments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- While Django's **default scaffolding function** is not bad for small projects, it does not scale without modification when trying to manage things such as multiple environments.
```

> - It implements the Model View Template pattern and requires some effort to implement other architecture types with it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- This functionality implements the Model View Template pattern, but requires some effort to implement other architecture types with it.
```

> ## Developer experience

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Developer Experience
```

> # Django or Flask which one is should you choose your project?

Reviewer 2: I think there is an error in the title, the correct question would be:

which one should you choose for your project?

> # Django or Flask which one is should you choose your project?

Reviewer 3: @andrea-fajardo This is one of the topics James suggested to us. The topic is "Django vs. Flask", what title should we use to improve the SEO? Maybe "Django vs. Flask: Which one should you choose for your project?"

> Django and Flask are among the most popular Python web frameworks.

Reviewer 2: I would add the links to Django and Flask pages here

Author: Yup, and maybe an image with the logos before every section

Reviewer 2: Add this and I think is ready

In this article we're going to review their main strengths and weaknesess to help you decide wich one is the better fit for your project.

# Django

## Approach
Django opts for an all batteries included approach.

> This means that we have everything we need to build our project included into the framework

Reviewer 2: Missing `.` at the end

from a powerful ORM to an authentication system or a templating engine.
Django takes care of it all without the need to learn any extra libraries.

It also has the concept of plugabble apps, that means that you can drop an app folder inside your project and get it's functionality right away
with very little configuration.

## Main features
- Django has a very powerful ORM that exposes a lot of SQL to the python programming language.

> - Authentication and Authorization built in, without any extra configuration

Reviewer 2: Missing `.` at the end

> - A built in admin site

Reviewer 2: Missing `.` at the end

- A built in mailing system.

## Pitfalls
- Tightly coupled with it's toolset, django it's sort of difficult to use in combination with other tools (replacing the form library for example)

> - The default scafolding, while not bad for small projects, does not scales without modification when trying to manage things such as multiple environments.

Reviewer 2: Maybe you can add here: regardless this point, exists cookie cutter to help us to get a more maintainable structure

Author: Even tough useful, cookiecutter is not an official tool nor it's included in the docs.
That's why i didn't added it here.

- It implements the Model View Template pattern, and requires some effort to implement other architecture types with it

# Flask

## Approach
Born as a combination of an http server with a template engine zipped together, Flask opts for a very minimalistic approach.
It provides some minimal structure, but leaves the decisions up to you.
This makes flask very easy to extend with practically whatever you want.

## Main features
- Very ligthweight.
- It requires little to no configuration.
- Not opinionated, you have total freedom to decide the project structure, from a single file to an elaborate folder system.
- When you need some structure, you have blueprints to structure your app.
- Easy to integrate with other python libraries.

## Pitfalls
- Since it's very lightweigth, while the framework itself doesn't need any special configuration, the used libraries often do require config.

> - You have to mix and match libraries to get the desired functionality this also means that different parts of your project have different support from the community.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- You have to mix and match libraries to get the desired functionality. This also means that different parts of your project have different support from the community.
```

- The lack of opinion can lead to complicated architectures, or to very big single file projects.

# Wrapping up

> ## Django is a good idea for…

Reviewer 2: Don't forget to put the final `.` in the next sentences

- Quickly validating business ideas
- Ecommerce sites with standard features
- Information systems in general where reporting is important

## Flask is a good idea for…
- Lightweight applications
- Microservices
- Non MVT or MVC projects

> #So?, Wich one should i choose?

Reviewer 2: You have to put a space to get the correct format title

To properly answer this question you need to take into consideration all the project requirements and make a decision based on that.
If development speed is the most important thing because you need to go to the market fast, then Django probably will be the better choice,
since you get a more complete feature set out of the box.
If you need a more custom solution, or your project features are out of the ordinary Flask might be the better choice.
At the end of the day, you should choose the framework that adjusts more into your project idea and particular situation,

> taking into consideration their strengths and weaknesess

Reviewer 3: Could we add something to encourage readers to comment?
Maybe asking the reader to add a comment if he has some pros/cons that are not in the article, or asking for his opinion about which one should be used or something like that.
This increases readers' engagement with the blog.

# Django vs Flask: which one should you choose for your project?

> Django and Flask are among the most popular Python web frameworks.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[Django](link_to_django_page) and [Flask](link_to_flask_page) are among the most popular Python web frameworks.
```

Reviewer 2: I know you attached the link to the picture, but maybe the users don't try to click any image

> In this article we're going to review their main strengths and weaknesses to help you decide which one is the better fit for your project.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
In this article, we're going to review their main strengths and weaknesses to help you decide which one is the better fit for your project.
```
```suggestion
In this article we're going to review their main strengths and weaknesses to help you decide which one is the better fit for your project.
```

# Django
[![django-logo](images/flask-vs-django-django-logo.png)](https://www.djangoproject.com/)
## Approach

> Django opts for an all batteries included approach.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Django opts for an all batteries-included approach.
```

From a powerful ORM to an authentication system or a templating engine, Django takes care of it all without the need to learn any extra libraries.

> It also has the concept of pluggable apps, that means that you can drop an app folder inside your project and get its functionality right away

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
It also has the concept of pluggable apps, which means that you can drop an app folder inside your project and get its functionality right away
```

with very little configuration.

## Main features
- Django has a very powerful ORM that exposes a lot of SQL to the python programming language.

> - Authentication and Authorization built in, without any extra configuration.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- Authentication and Authorization built-in, without any extra configuration.
```

> - A built in admin site.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- A built-in admin site.
```

> - A built in mailing system.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- A built-in mailing system.
```

## Pitfalls
- Tightly coupled with its toolset, Django is sort of difficult to use in combination with other tools (replacing the form library for example).
- The default scaffolding, while not bad for small projects, does not scale without modification when trying to manage things such as multiple environments.
- It implements the Model View Template pattern, and requires some effort to implement other architecture types with it.

# Flask
![flask logo](images/django-vs-flask-flask-logo.png)

> ## Approach

Reviewer 5: What about merging this with the Django approach into one section of the post ? That way you can avoid repeating subtitles and the reader can compare right there. This would apply for `Main features` and `Pitfalls` as well.

Author: i actually wrote it that way to let the user read and study one framework at a time and make a decision about what to use after reading both.
I think if you're evaluating both features this is more confortable to read.
Maybe a table summing up the points at the end could work for what you want and as a TLDR as well?

> - It implements the Model View Template pattern, and requires some effort to implement other architecture types with it.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- It implements the Model View Template pattern and requires some effort to implement other architecture types with it.
```

It provides some minimal structure, but leaves the decisions up to you.
This makes flask very easy to extend with practically whatever you want.

## Main features
- Very lightweight.
- It requires little to no configuration.
- Not opinionated, you have total freedom to decide the project structure, from a single file to an elaborate folder system.
- When you need some structure, you have blueprints to structure your app.
- Easy to integrate with other python libraries.

## Pitfalls
- Since it's very lightweight, while the framework itself doesn't need any special configuration, the used libraries often do require config.
- You have to mix and match libraries to get the desired functionality. This also means that different parts of your project have different support from the community.
- The lack of opinion can lead to complicated architectures, or to very big single file projects.

# Wrapping up

## Django is a good idea for…
- Quickly validating business ideas.
- Ecommerce sites with standard features.
- Information systems in general where reporting is important.

## Flask is a good idea for…
- Lightweight applications.
- Microservices.
- Non MVT or MVC projects.

> # So... Which one should I choose?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# So... Which one should you choose?
```

Added this suggestion just to be consisten with the title

To properly answer this question you need to take into consideration all the project requirements and make a decision based on that.
If development speed is the most important thing because you need to go to the market fast, then Django probably will be the better choice,
since you get a more complete feature set out of the box.
If you need a more custom solution, or your project features are out of the ordinary Flask might be the better choice.
At the end of the day, you should choose the framework that adjusts more into your project idea and particular situation,
taking into consideration their strengths and weaknesess.

> Do you have any experience that you want to share with any of this frameworks?

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Do you have any experience that you want to share with any of these frameworks?
```

Reviewer 5: Great ending with reader engagement! 👏

> taking into consideration their strengths and weaknesess.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
taking into consideration their strengths and weaknesses.
```

> # Django or Flask which one should you choose your project?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# Django vs Flask: which one should you choose for your project?
```

Django and Flask are among the most popular Python web frameworks.
In this article we're going to review their main strengths and weaknesses to help you decide which one is the better fit for your project.

# Django

## Approach
Django opts for an all batteries included approach.
This means that we have everything we need to build our project included into the framework.

> from a powerful ORM to an authentication system or a templating engine.

Reviewer 6: Not sure, but I think this may be missing a `,` and also adding capital to `From.` Maybe something like this? `From a powerful ORM to an authentication system or a templating engine, Django takes care of it all without the need to learn any extra libraries`.

- A built in admin site.
- A built in mailing system.

## Pitfalls
- Tightly coupled with its toolset, Django is sort of difficult to use in combination with other tools (replacing the form library for example).
- The default scaffolding, while not bad for small projects, does not scale without modification when trying to manage things such as multiple environments.
- It implements the Model View Template pattern, and requires some effort to implement other architecture types with it.

# Flask

## Approach
Born as a combination of an http server with a template engine zipped together, Flask opts for a very minimalistic approach.
It provides some minimal structure, but leaves the decisions up to you.
This makes flask very easy to extend with practically whatever you want.

## Main features
- Very lightweight.
- It requires little to no configuration.
- Not opinionated, you have total freedom to decide the project structure, from a single file to an elaborate folder system.
- When you need some structure, you have blueprints to structure your app.
- Easy to integrate with other python libraries.

## Pitfalls

> - Since it's very lightweigth, while the framework itself doesn't need any special configuration, the used libraries often do require config.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
- Since it's very lightweight, while the framework itself doesn't need any special configuration, the used libraries often do require config.
```

- You have to mix and match libraries to get the desired functionality. This also means that different parts of your project have different support from the community.
- The lack of opinion can lead to complicated architectures, or to very big single file projects.

# Wrapping up

## Django is a good idea for…
- Quickly validating business ideas.
- Ecommerce sites with standard features.
- Information systems in general where reporting is important.

## Flask is a good idea for…
- Lightweight applications.
- Microservices.
- Non MVT or MVC projects.

> # So?, Which one should I choose?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# So... Which one should I choose?
```
